# Competitive-Data-Science
I enrolled in an online course titled 'Competitive Data Science' on Coursera. The purpose of the course is to teach students how to become familiar with the data science competition website Kaggle. The factulty for this course are from the National Research University Higher School of Economics (HSE). Located in Moscow, it is one of the largest and also a leading university in Russia. Interestingly enough, it is connected to Tsinghua University, the alma mater for my STA 108 professor, Prof. Chen, through the BRICS Universities League. The leading university, Beijing Normal University (BNU) has an excellent motto that I would enjoy sharing, "Learn, so as to instruct others; Act, to serve as a model for all."

Here is the first assignment:
Pandas Basics
The first upload that I have is from the first assignment for the course. The purpose of the assignment was to analyze company data in terms of sales for a Russian software company called 1C. The goal was to complete 4 questions, both of which required a correct answer to pass. I managed to complete the last questions with 6 minutes to spare on the deadline, an exciting homework assignment to say the least. The questions included finding out maximum revenue for a given period, highest revenue for a category in a given period, the number of items within a certain specification, and the variance of items sold in a period.

Many of the questions were difficult at first, and required studying pandas in addition to the Python knowledge that I have acquired. Also, the forums proved to be an excellent resource for finding out more information about how to approach certain problems. In the end it became a battle against time to comprehend both the questions, the data, and other people's advice for finding a solution.

Here is the second assignment:
Data Leakage
There was an issue for this assignment which involved finding out a Data Leak for an example competition. Ideally, with a large set of pairs in a set of data, the total number of possible pair combinations should be generally quite large in comparison to the number of 'positive pairs' that are identified within the set. In the actual given by the organizers, there was a relatively high amount of 'positive pairs,' indicating that the organizers utilized some sort of algorithm to select the given sample. The next step was to create an incidence matrix which is quite sparse, and to use it to create a magic effect. After inputing the column for each tuple into the matrix, it is possible to find the dot product and examine the results. If they were near to 0 they were likely different, however similar representations of pairs had large numbers. It was then possible to identify a relatively small amount of unique numbers, and to use the smallest as a predictor. Much of the assignment was difficult for me to understand at my level of academic accomplishment, and many of the steps were guided through by going through forums. Despite the trouble in accomplishing the assignment, it felt relieving to have finished it in time, and to be able to move on to the next week.
